Personal Statement
      My soul is not shown through me but through all of the people that I love and know, for it is they who know my best features as a person.  I believe that my reason for being in this world is to help all people who call on me for my help and to help those who don’t have a chance unless someone out there comes and helps them out. 
      I have to be honest; I never thought I’d end up with working with disabled children as a career choice. My dream as a little girl was to become a vet and help save the lives of all animals. This all turned around when I became a freshman in my first year of high school. 
      My cousin was born and little did she know she had changed my life forever. She was born premature, and along with that came muscle deficiency, keeping her from advancing in the learning ways of a child at her age. What a normal two year old could do at their age, she is just learning to accomplish at four. It doesn’t seem to bother her though and that’s what makes her so inspiring. I babysit for her often and have learned about all of the different things I can do to take care of her; to me she is just like any other child. Because of her, my career path has switched to wanting to work with children like her every day. This is the type of inspiration I need to keep me going through life. I love when I see the smiles on the faces of kids like her, because they have accomplished something that adults and kids like me take for granted every day. It makes me appreciate life so much more! I not only want a career like this because I love working with these types of people. The main goal is to be able to make difference in the lives of others, to be the reason they have a smile on their face. If there are any “normal people” in the world it would be them, for they are the inspirational ones and they never take anything for granted because they live life accomplishment by accomplishment. With my cousin, I am trying to teach her new things every day, but the strange thing is that she teaches me something new every day too and that’s what I will accomplish to make happen for the rest of my life.
Coming this senior year I will be taking any classes that will help me to advance to continue on school so that I can reach the highest goal on my list and that is to have a career that involves changing the lives of others. I can’t wait for this summer because I am finally old enough to volunteer at a local pediatric therapy, being able to see eye for eye what I am going to do when I finish school and graduate.
Everyone has one unique event that makes their day every time it happens to them. Well, mine is seeing that special sparkle in a person’s eyes when I have made an impact on their life in a tremendous way that will stay with them forever, just because I wanted to, not because someone told me to.
