To Tattoo or Not Tattoo

      Body art and tattoos have been part of man’s self-expression since the beginning of recorded time.  My own introduction to this unique art form came at the age of twelve, about the same time I became interested in skateboarding.  I admired the elite professional skaters, who prowled the streets performing flawless feats of gravity-defying stunts.  Not only did they have incredible skateboarding skills in common, but also I noticed their arms were adorned with beautiful works of art.  Before too long, I learned that these works of art were tattoos, and I wanted desperately to discover more about this fascinating art form.
      
	With this thought buried deep in the back of my mind for future reference, at the age of sixteen, a friend introduced me to the television show Miami Ink.  The show features a tattoo shop in Miami and its customers, who present the artists with ideas for tattoos. The ideas are typically the brainchild of some interesting or heart-touching story.  This show was the spark that ignited the flame of my interest in adding tattoo art to my creative skills.

	I have been creative in art and music for most of my life, and have played with a variety of local bands since I was twelve.  Over the years I slowly came to realize the sad, unfortunate truth:  to become successful in the music industry, you really need to be a true prodigy or have connections in the business.  I began to realize that I needed other options.  One day, my memories of skateboarding and Miami Ink melded for me and a new opportunity to express my creativity exploded in my mind; “I could become a tattoo artist.”

	I began printing out pictures of tattoos that I liked from the Internet and copying them directly into my sketchbook, shading and coloring them with a large variety of thin-tip Sharpie markers.  I quickly evolved into “Sharpie-Tattooing” my friends at school, who had begun to present me with requests to draw on their arms.  My new form of self-expression quickly earned the positive attention of Great Valley students and teachers as well!

      My mother suggested I sell my tattoo drawings to local shops, but I was committed that my artwork should be expressed through my talents alone.  I knew I wanted to learn with a professional and become a skilled “body artist,” so I began looking for a tattoo shop to begin my education.  I discovered M&M Tattooing in Downingtown, Pennsylvania.  Rather than a long-term apprenticeship, they offered a Tattoo Art Program where one could learn everything he/she needed to know to become an accomplished tattoo artist.  This totally appealed to my desires.  I obtained as much information as I could about the program.  Everything was perfect, except for one thing - the price; it was a whopping six thousand dollars. 
      
	I knew I could not come up with six thousand dollars on my own, let alone expect my parents to front the money for Tattoo School.  I also knew I would have to fine-tune my negotiating skills to convince my parents to allow me to pursue this passion.  They had always been against the idea of tattoos and I was afraid they would laugh at my idea.  I was devastated, but determined.  I began working part-time in the shop for extra money, saving up all I could.  While I was there I learned much more than most tattoo students get to learn.  I was exposed to the inner workings of the business, blood borne pathogens, overall safety, how to sterilize equipment, and basically everything there is to know about running a successful shop. 

	I saved my money, sold camera and music equipment that I no longer needed, and did everything I could to salvage every dollar that came my way.  Eventually, I had come up with half the tuition.  I negotiated with my parents, presenting them with dozens of reasons why I should pursue this dream and why they should assist me.  Seeing my determination and dedication to achieving my goal, my parents agreed to sign the necessary paperwork and covered the remaining cost of the tuition.  It was time to begin school.

      My parents have supported me 110 percent through all of my creative endeavors.  This was certainly a new, strange, and distant art form to them but, with my education, they learned as well, and grew to accept and appreciate the art form.  They came full circle, from not understanding or liking tattoos, to actually attending a tattoo convention with me.  My dad was the least willing to budge, and his solid “No Tattoos!” attitude has slowly evolved to the point that he now has his own tattoo, drawn and applied by this college applicant!
      
	I attended tattoo school and after six months of hard work, I became a certified tattoo artist.  In those months at M&M, I learned a lot about responsibility and how important little things can be.  I met a variety of very “unique” people with interesting backgrounds, and it really opened my eyes to more of what goes on outside of my limited world.  In doing so, I succeeded in broadening my parents’ perspectives as well, which enabled them to see what exists outside of their worlds.  It became a win-win situation, and has had an invaluable impact on my life.  It has also highlighted my ability to bring together people from different walks of life and help them come to understand each other better.  I will be able to take full advantage of that strength by opening my own tattoo studio one day, where I will meet and work with new people every day!

      My dream of one day being fortunate enough to own my own tattoo studio continues.  I have taken many art classes at school, including Advanced Placement Drawing, as well as Entrepreneurship and Personal Finance, so I will have the tools to reach my goal.  I am a firm believer in always doing what makes you happiest, and this includes your career path.  Thus, I am anxious to begin my college career in an excellent art program, such as that offered by _____, where I can further develop my skills.  And who knows?  Maybe one day I’ll develop a college curriculum around tattoo art to make the walk I’m taking just a bit easier for those budding artists coming behind me!
      
      						Dan Scott
      
      
Dan Scott		1

